# HTML NOTES

## Chapter 1: Structure

- In any kind of document, structure is very important in helping all readers to understand the messages you are trying to get across and to navigate the document. In order to learn how to write web pages, it is very important to understand how to structure documents. Imagine the stories you read in a newspaper. For each story, there will be a headline, some text and occasionally some images. If the article is long, there may be subheadings that spilt the story into separate sections or quotes. Structure helps readers understand the stories and easily read your piece ***in order.***

- HTML code is made up of characters that live inside angled brackets (<elements>. These are called HTML elements. Elements are usually made up of two tags: an opening tag and a closing tag. (The closing tag has an extra forward slash in it.) (</element>) Each HTML element tells the browser something about the information that sits between its opening and closing tags.

- <body>
Everything inside this element is shown inside the main browser window.

- <head>
Before the <body> element you will often see a <head> element. This contains information about the page. You will usually find a <title> element inside the <head>
element.

- <title>
The <title> element is either shown in the top of the browser, above where you usually type in the URL of the page you want to visit, or on the tab for that page.

- HTML pages are text documents and uses tags (characters that sit inside angled
brackets) to give the information they surround special meaning.
- Tags are often referred to as elements.
- Tags usually come in pairs. The opening tag denotes the start of a piece of content; the closing tag denotes the end.
- Opening tags can carry attributes, which tell us more about the content of that element. Attributes require a name and a value.
- To learn HTML you need to know what tags are available for you to use, what they do, and where they can go. There are many cheet sheets on google to practice what each tags means and does!

## Chapter 8: Extra Markup

- Doctypes: Because there have been several versions of HTML, each web page should begin with a DOCTYPE declaration to tell a browser which version of HTML the page is using.

- ID attribute: Every HTML element can carry the id attribute. It is used to uniquely identify that element from other elements on the page. Its value should start with a letter or an underscore.

- Class attribute: Every HTML element can also carry a class attribute. Sometimes, you will want a way to identify several elements as being different from the other elements on the page. For example, you might have some paragraphs of text that contain information that is more important than others and want to distinguish between these elements.

- Grouping text in a block: <div>- the div element allows you to group a set of elements together in one block-level box.

## Chapter 17: HTML5 Layout

- <div> was used for many years by developers to group together elements on a page. HTML5 uses new elements that allow developers to do the same thing.

- <header> & <footer>: The header and footer appear on the top or bottom of every page on a site.

- <nav>: Used to contain navagational blocks.

- <article>: A container for any section for a page that could stand alone.

- <section>: Groups related content together.

## Chapter 18: Process and design

- Every website should be designed for the target audience. It is therefore very important to understand who your target audience is.

- Site maps: The aim is to create a diagram of the pages that will be used to structure the site. This is known as a site map and it will show how those pages can be grouped.

- Wireframes: A wireframe is a ketch of the key information that needs to go on each page of a site. It shows the hierarchy of the information and how much space it might require.
